The harpoon.Backend.StrongARM package contains machine-dependent classes
for the StrongARM backend. (Frame/CodeGen)

Useful notes:

StrongARM NATIVECALL Caller Convention (As Seen In (tm): gcc arm32-netbsd):
	full, descending stack
	pass parameters 1, 2, 3, 4 in r0, r1, r2, r3 respectively
	after that, push arguments onto the stack (last argument first)
	return value in r0

	r11 = fp, r12 = ip, r13 = sp, r14 = lr, r15 = pc
	callee clobbers r0,r1,r2,r3,ip,lr
	callee saves r4-r11,r13
	live on exit: fp, sp, pc  [actually only fp and pc]
 [more details from CSA:]
        'full' stack means that the stack pointer points at the last,
        full location (instead of the next, empty, location).  The stack
        grows down, towards lower addresses.  That means that a decrement
        of sp is done *before* a store, and an increment of sp is done
        *after* a load.  Thus the assembly mnemonic stmfd --- STore Multiple
        Full Descending (stack) --- is equivalent to stmdb, STore Multiple
        Decrement Before.  Likewise ldmfd is equivalent to ldmia, LoaD
        Multiple Increment After.  The lowest register is always transferred
        to the lowest address, so that means that, conceptually, r0 is
        last pushed or first popped.  In actual practice addresses are
        always generated in ascending order (yes, even for instructions
	with 'decrement' in their mnemonic) so that r15
	(the program counter) is always loaded/stored last.  This ensures
        correct control tranfer, if that's what you're after.  So just
	think "r0 at the bottom" and let the processor worry about
	Doing The Right Thing when the program counter is being loaded.
	If the program counter is included in a stm instruction, the
	value stored will be the address of the stm plus 12.

	The branch and link (bl) instruction transfers the return address
	into the link register and transfers control.  The proper
	fixup to the pc is done to allow for pipelining.

	So, a typical procedure call is just
		bl _foo
	for functions with four or less arguments, all of which are
	preloaded in r0-r3.  It is assumed that the called function
	clobbers r0-r3,ip (and that the link register r14 is clobbered by
	the bl itself) but that all other registers are left untouched.
	A typical procedure header (according to gcc) is thus:
		mov ip, sp
		stmfd sp!, {fp, ip, lr, pc} @ stmfd == stmdb
		sub fp, ip, #4
		sub sp, sp, #16
	and the return sequence is just
		ldmea fp, {fp, sp, pc} @ ldmea == ldmdb

	Let's go over this.  ip gets the old stack pointer; that is,
	the (full) top of the caller's stack.  We then push, in this
	order: pc, lr, ip, fp.  sp now points to the location where
	fp is stored.  We make fp now point to the first word in
	our stack, which is where pc is stored.  The pc is pretty useless,
	actually: it points to the instruction after the 'sub' instruction
	in the header sequence.  Not sure why gcc stores it.  Then
	the stack pointer is further decremented by 4 words (16 bytes) --
	that's the space to store r0, r1, r2, and r3 in, if we need to
	call some other function.  Pretty bogus, too: most times this
	space won't be used, but I guess if you're calling lots of functions
	it makes sense to allocate this space early instead of adjusting
	the stack pointer again before every call.  Note that all on-stack
	addressing is done using fp, which stays constant throughout
	the procedure; if we enter a scope with more variables (an
	inner block, in C) the stack pointer might moved down to give us
	more room, but the variable offsets from fp remain unchanged.
	The stack pointer just tells any method we call how much stack
	we're using and thus where they can begin their stack.

	The return is funky: we load *decrementing from fp*, instead
	of counting up from sp as you might expect.  This is probably
	so that bits of the procedure with differing numbers of local
	variables (and thus different values of sp) can share the
	same exit code.  Lower numbered registers get loaded from
	lower numbered addresses, so this all works right.  We load,
	in order counting down, pc, sp, fp.  Remember that we stored
	pc, lr, ip, fp, and that fp points to where pc is stored.
	Since the return is pre-decrement, that means we load old-lr into
	pc (effecting the return), old-ip (which was equal to old-sp at
	the point of the save) into sp, and old-fp into fp.  Assuming
	we didn't use any registers other than {r0,r1,r2,r3}, we've
	restored all the state just as it was.
	[if we need to use r4 and higher, than we just add them to
	both the store and the load instructions.  all the stacking
	still works out.  note that the 'mov ip, sp' instruction at
	the beginning of the procedure header makes sense in this
	context: it means we don't have to keep adjust the two
	'sub' instructions following the 'stmfd' depending on how
	many registers we push on the stack.]

	Note that r0-r3, lr, and ip are clobbered by a call.

For normal CALLs:
	same calling convention, except that on an exceptional
	return, we want to return some place other than where
	lr pointed.  We use the old value of lr (the return address,
	accessible at [fp, #-4] to index a sorted "fixup table",
	which maps return addresses to exceptional return addresses.
	We write the value we find back into [fp, #-4] and return
	as usual... which will take us to the caller's exception
	handler. [CSA]
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Alignment issues. [CSA]

The StrongARM doesn't enforce any given pointer alignment.  However,
the behavior on non-word aligned addresses may surprise you.

LDR *rotates* the non-aligned address in order to put the address you
requested in the LSB.  However, the high byte(s) will be the bytes
*before* the address requested.  For example, if we store the string
"Hello" starting at (word-aligned) address 0, like so:
  0  1  2  3  4
  H  e  l  l  o
The a load from address 1 will return 'ellH', *not* 'ello' as you might
expect.  [The official spec words it this way: "An address offset from a
word boundary will cause the data to be rotated into the register so that
the addressed byte occupies bits 0 to 7.]

STR *ignores* the least-significant two bits of its address.  Storing
'Jell' into address 1, 2, or 3 will produce 'Jello', just like a store
into address 0 would.

Byte loads and stores (ldrb, strb) do The Right Thing, as you'd expect
them to.

So -- be careful when reading/writing word-length data that your addresses
are properly 4-byte aligned!
