---- Feb-01-99
- Induction Variable Elimination

- Explicit Initialization

- Copy all possible hacks from source for gcc (make Flex have decent benchmarks)

---- Dec-31-98
Reclaim INSTANCEOF optimization opportunities by adding NULL check ahead of it.

---- Oct-04-98
Write 'UndoRecursion' analysis/optimization pass.

---- Sep-25-98
O Undo peephole optimization and replace with a rule in SCCAnalysis that
O  makes icmpeq on a one-bit (boolean) value into a MOVE instruction.
O  Actually, since sense of result of icmpeq and boolean is different,
O  this would entail switching all CJMPs that use boolean value and
O  negative value in all other uses.  May be more complicated.
O Make LCMP/FCMP/DCMP smarter.  We currently two twice as many tests as is
O  necessary at times.

---- Sep-24-98
Xfigure out what to do about related variables/induction variables in bitwidth.
find induction variables and use this info in bitwidth.

---- Sep-21-98
Finish bitwidth analysis in SCC.
O Check merges of try: only constrain state to be equivalent.  Possibly
O   we can more aggressively merge catch blocks?

---- Sep-20-98
Predicated interprocedural analysis.

---- Sep-15-98
X Phi-placement analysis works, it just needs 'dead-code elimination'.
X  Remove any phi function that defines a variable that is never used.

---- Sep-14-98
X Make sure Test/zeroopt.java is properly optimized.
X SWITCH processing is still broken.
X Check try/catch processing.  I don't think we're putting in the right
X   PHI functions.
X Maybe split phi/switch stuff into separate entities:
X  QUESTION: what do we do about optimizing ( x+1 < y )

---- Sep-14-98
X Peephole optimizations on QuadSSA to normalize:
X  1) instanceof -> icmp -> cjmp (or in general, boolean->icmp->cjmp)
X     all boolean functions should feed a cjmp directly.
X  2) lcmp,dcmp mess.  Look for CJMP whose test is def'd in a PHI statement,
X     and remove the PHI, duplicating the CJMP.  May need to be a PHI->CJMP
X     sequence. 
O make sure cmpgt->cmpeq is properly translated to cmpge, too.

---- Sep-11-98
write analysis to remove unnecessary control dependencies.  PARALLEL quad?
X Optimize INSTANCEOF and COMPONENTOF in SCC.
X Write optimization pass based on SCC analysis.
X Rewrite SCC to use *edges* instead of *blocks* for executable analysis.
X   ql is then set of all edge *targets*.  Doesn't have to be unique, but
X   it'd be nice.
X Rewrite SCC to use Visitor pattern.
O Rewrite SCC to use *sets* of classes?
